Well, I was a special pioneer in Waxahatchee, Texas.
That was back in 1940 when there was a lot of mob violence.
And we were in the Waxahatchee jail.
89 of us were arrested there.
That's how I got to know Lorraine.
And in August of 31st is when we got married.
Then afterwards, we were sent to Palestine, Texas.
And afterwards back to Waxahatchee.
And then from Waxahatchee to Dallas.
And Dallas is when we received our secret letter.
Nobody was supposed to know anything about it.
We were living in the same trailer campus.
My wife's folks.
So we couldn't even tell them about it.
My wife and I from the very time we,
even before we got married,
we decided that any assignment that society gave us,
we would accept.
Well, we still didn't feel we were worthy of it.
But we sold the car and the trailer.
Said goodbye to everybody because we never thought
we'd get back to see them again.
Because at that time, why the World War II was on.
And well, we thought the end was nearby.
That was 1st of February, 1943.
We went to Gilead.
They had a terrific north storm.
And of course, the school started the 1st of February.
Brother Nore, he was president at that time.
He introduced us all.
And we went on into the classrooms.
And for five months, we were there at Gilead.
We were the guinea pigs of the Gilead school.
Because we were the first ones.
No instructors, the program was new.
In fact, everything was new.
It was a difficult course.
I was educated in a small country school.
And of course, went to the eighth grade and eighth grade
and two years in high school.
And I went into the pioneer work.
So it was difficult.
We went through the whole Bible.
And then also Bible prophecies.
We had to learn to study.
But it was a real training.
It trained us for future missionary service.
After that, we were sent to Cuba.
We lived on a $25 allowance.
So we had a pair of rent.
We had a buyer of food.
And also buyer furniture.
We slept on the floor the first night.
Next day, we went out and bought our beds.
We bought in the market.
We bought wood apple boxes.
And we made our dressers and covered
out of those.
Literature placement was quite well.
We went out with a phonograph at that time.
We used it.
We played the record for four and a half minutes.
And then we offer the literature.
We go in a Bible study.
We take the English copy of the book.
English copy of the Bible.
And also the Spanish copy.
And we finally saw that that wasn't necessary.
That was this hindering us from progressing
in the Spanish language.
So we put our English books away and just worked in Spanish.
Little by little, we caught on to the language.
The Cubans speak very, very fast.
And we'd come out of a meeting.
And our head would just be busting on us because of their
of the Spanish language.
And of course, one puts such an effort
for us to learn the language.
And after a few months while we were able to defend ourselves
we received some speaking assignments,
even on assemblies.
I don't know how the brothers understood us,
but the Cubans are very, are very loving people.
And all they just delight us to have us in their homes.
When we went to Cuba,
brother Nora talked to us the night before we left
from New York.
And he says, I'm leaving you in Cuba for five years
or until you have 5,000 publishers.
He sent us a letter, five years later,
to the day inviting us to take a new assignment.
We had the 5,000 publishers and we were there five years.
So he must have written down some agenda,
some place as he wrote us to the day.
In 1948, we were assigned to Argentina with four other
sisters.
When we arrived in Buenos Aires,
there were 900 publishers in the country.
After being in Buenos Aires for six months,
brother Nora came down.
And he assigned me the circuit work.
It's a big country.
I've traveled all over the country.
I know a good number of the brothers.
We were never recognized as a religion in Argentina
until 1982.
So we just saw the work move ahead.
In 1975 or 1976,
when the band was put on the work the second time,
we had 33,000 publishers in the country
and it dropped down to 27,000.
But even under the band,
while we just started going, moving ahead,
moving ahead, we even had small assemblies.
But when you look back over the years,
there's no question that Jehovah's directed everything.
He's permitted things to happen
and it just strengthens one's faith
that Jehovah's organization.
There's no question about it.
Really, when one looks back over the years,
we know we've taken the best course of life.